<<< 2018-06-04 >>>

3 main kinds of QS
  Gram Negative - AHL and luxI and luxR receptor pairs
  Gram Positive - AIP and the new ComRS
  Both - AI-2 is unique since it can be used for intra-species communication
AHL-Degrading Enzymes
Biological NOR gate using QS. (AHL signaler)
Biofilms
	High cell density leads to complex intra and inter cellular group activity.
Cheats and their effects on quorums.
       Express death of cells.
       Signaling, coercion, cueing
Simulation Space
	   Stiffness
	   Adhesion Molecules
Systems Biology Markup Language SBML
	BioModels database
Scale of simulation
      Membrane models and the like
      Gene and receptor models vs a high level abstraction over them

<<< 2018-06-12 >>>

Attempting to specify the subset of SBML we will support.
Spatial package is implemented and I can use it but it isn't yet well documented.
 - Spec is ambiguous in some specific cases and has no examples yet to help.
Analytic geometry or sampled field? Or both?
Should we support multiple domains?
 - If we are only targeting QS, then we really only have one domain right?
   The extracellular simulation space.

<<< 2018-06-13 >>>

Has one compartment, the SIM_SPACE. Represents the FPGA architecture space.
Each species is defined within this compartment. Additionally,
  each species is prefixed by either "CELL_" or "AUTO_" to represent that it
  is a cell or autoinducer respectively.
Required CELL_output parameter with respective rule. The space_agent uses this
  to know when to output more chemical.


Architectural Ideas
Ability for space_agent to detect not only the cell_state at its current location
  but also some additional data related to that cell. Stochastic variation in cell
  parameters for example.

<<< 2018-06-14 >>>

Talk with Alan about input and output data formats for the entire
  architecture. I want to begin specifying some of the layout of the
  architecture file and it would be nice if that mirrored the input the
  architecture expects in some way.

TODO: Change check_valid_abaqs_doc to report all errors in document at once.
        Don't just stop after the first is encountered (as is currently done
        since we use exceptions).
TODO: Don't let users specify attributes that we don't use. In the Species
        element for example.

<<< 2018-06-15 >>>

TODO: libsbml doesn't seem to be catching lexical or syntactic errors anymore.
      Fix this. See comment above Compiler constructor for details.

<<< 2018-06-18 >>>

TODO: Make sure parameters in SBML document that aren't declarated with
      their value have a rule that assigns it. Otherwise, the parameter
      will never get a value.

<<< 2018-06-19 >>>

Ask Jamieson what is masters degree even for.

TODO: Refactor all of the 'processSomething' functions in Compiler. These
      all share a similar structure and can probably be made much nicer
      using templates.

TODO: Remove CompilerSomething from abaqs_types (those that are thin facades
      over std::vector). There is a lot of repetition here and it can all be
      solved by putting the checks performed in the 'record' member function
      into the relevant 'check_valid_something' functions. The 'Compiler'
      member variables can be simple std::vectors.

Granuloma Paper:
  Space: 100x100 compartment space. Macrophages and T cell agents are contained
         within these compartments. Bacteria and chemokines are continuously
         contained with these compartments. Some compartments are designated
         as source compartments from which T cells and macrophages enter
         the simulation lattice.
         Comparments can be assigned a "necrotic" attribute if the number
         of T cell killings or macrophage deaths in that compartment
         exceeds 8.
  Time: One time step is 6s (the diffusion rate of chemokines). T cells
        update their movement once every 100 time steps. Macrophage time
        steps vary (according to their infected and activated states) from
        100 to 145,000.
        A simulation varies from 200 to 500 days. 7.2 million time steps.
  Continuous agents:
    Chemokines: Infected, chronically infected and activated macrophages
                are sources for chemokines. Chemokines diffuse and
                eventually deteriorate with a half life ranging from 2
                to 4 hours.
    Bacteria: Minimum of 10 are required to infect a macrophage.
              Doubling rate is about 75 hours.
              Max amount of bacteria per compartment is 200 (10 times amount
              macrophage can hold before bursting)
              Growth is logistic with respect to this maximum.
  T Cells: Only one can share a compartment with a macrophage.
           T cells enter the lattice (via the source compartments) after
           10 days with a specific probability of appearing. The source
           compartments which bring new T cells in are directly related
           to the concentration of chemokines in the area.
           T cells are assigned a random lifespan ranging from 0 to 3 days
           and they disappear after this time elapses.
           T cells move according to biased random walk. The probabilities
           of moving in each direction is affected by the chemokine
           concentration. Movement restrictions align perfectly with ABAQS.
  Macrophages: Only one can occupy a compartment at a time.
               Attributes include age, number of intercellular bacteria
               and state (resting, infected, chronically infected or activated)
               Lifespan randomly assigned from 0-100 days.
               Enter the lattice via source compartments if the concentration
               of chemokines is above a specific level.
               State transitions are well described in the paper.

Problems with the Granuloma paper related to simulating it on ABAQS.
  - One compartment must be able to hold two different agents at the same
    time, T cells and macrophages. This can be simulated however.
  - Compartments must be able to be assigned a "necrotic" value.
  - Some compartments must be designated as "source compartments" from which
  - T cells and macrophages can enter the simulation.
  - Many random variables and occurrences.
